### README.md

Well would you look at that, you're reading through the README.md file right now! I bet you can even intuit a bit of the purpose of this document based on what you've read so far. In short, the README.md file is the "user manual" for your project. Because it functions to summarize the project, the README.md is the last document written. It is composed of three sections:

1.  Software and platform

   Platform: [e.g., macOS Sequoia 15.1 or Windows 11]

  Software: R (v4.4.1), RStudio (v2024.09.0), Git (v2.47.0)

  Packages: tidyverse , httr2 , rvest , sf , janitor, purrr, jsonlite, rmapshaper

2.  Documentation map

    .
├── data/
│   ├── imported_data/
│   │   ├── mbta_facilities_final.csv
│   │   └── metadata/
│   │       └── mbta_facilities_final_source.txt
│   └── cleaned_data/
│       ├── mbta_elevated_accessibility_wellness.csv
│       └── metadata/
│           └── mbta_elevated_accessibility_wellness_source.txt
├── scripts/
│   ├── import.qmd
│   ├── cleaning.qmd
│   └── exploration.qmd
├── output/
│   ├── final_wellness_data.csv
│   ├── final_wellness_map.png
│   └── metadata/
│       ├── final_wellness_data_source.txt
│       └── final_wellness_data_codebook.txt
└── README.md

3.  Instructions for reproducing your work

    Environment Setup: Open the .Rproj file in RStudio to set the working directory.

Data Import: Run scripts/import.qmd. 
This script uses {httr2} to query the MBTA API and {rvest} to scrape Wikipedia. 
It saves the raw result as data/imported_data/mbta_facilities_final.csv. Should be 
findable in output. 

Data Cleaning: Run scripts/cleaning.qmd. This script reads mbta_facilities_final.csv, 
performs rectangling and joins it with the Land Cover data. 
It produces the midpoint file data/cleaned_data/mbta_elevated_accessibility_wellness.csv and 
the final analysis file output/final_wellness_data.csv. Exploration is not used much and 
cleaning.qmd produces the final result while import also has some debugging features.

Exploration & Visualization: Run scripts/exploration.qmd 
to process the final data and generate the map output/final_wellness_map.png. It is the last
cell block in exploration.

### The data/ folder

The data/ folder contains two sub-folders: (1) imported_data/ and (2) cleaned_data/. The imported_data/ folder will contain the data (as uncleaned R object files) you've gathered through API queries and web scraping. The cleaned_data/ folder will contain the dataset(s) that has/have been processed by the scripts/cleaning.qmd file.

### The scripts/ folder

The scripts/ folder contains three Quarto notebooks: (1) import.qmd, (2) cleaning.qmd, and (3) exploration.qmd. All code related to the import of data (i.e., your `{httr2}` and `{rvest}` code) should be **well-annotated** and organized within import.qmd. All cleaning activities (e.g., rectangling, reshaping, parsing, coercion, recoding, etc.) should be well-annotated and organized within cleaning.qmd.

### The output/ folder

In a more complete workflow, this folder would hold all of the images and tables corresponding to the visualizations and model results generated by the analysis. These figures and tables would then be incorporated into the final report. In the context of this project, the folder will contain only one or two files corresponding to your final_data.csv files(s).

## How to use this template

### Folders

Please do not add, nor subtract any folders from this repository. I'll ask that you not change their names.

### Scripts

You should populate the existing Quarto notebooks with well-annotated and organized code related to the purpose/focus indicated in their file name.

### Data

The "final_data.csv" file is just a placeholder. You should delete this file once you've populated the "output/" folder with actual data

### Metadata

You will need to create separate metadata files for each dataset you store in "data/imported_data/" and "data/cleaned_data/". Each metadata file should be named with a prefix that indicates the the data file it is associated with. Note that there is no "codebook.txt" file in "data/imported_data". This is because the data stored in this folder will not have yet been rectangled, and so lacks the organized column structure needed to produce a codebook.


